---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Key Terms/Vocab
categories: [Student Lessons]
title: Key Terms and Vocab
---

## 3.1 - Data Types and Variables and 3.2 0 Lists and Strings Using Variables
- Variable: Abstraction inside a program that holds a value
- Strings: Series of characters which can be numbers or letters.
- Lists: Sequences of elements with each element being a variable
- Index: Allows you to access parts of a list
## 3.3 Algorithms and 3.4 Order of Operations
- Sequencing: Algorithms do tasks in order
- Selection: Helps to choose an outcome
- Iteration: Code repeats if true
## 3.5 Booleans and 3.7 Logical Operators
- Boolean: Represents logical propositions
- Logical Operators
    * Not displays the opposite
    * And is used for two conditions together
    * Or is when using the function to see if one condition is met
- Selection: Code that is only executed if true or if false.
- Algorithm: Code that has instructions in which its goal is to complete something.
## 3.8 and 3.10 Iterations and Pseudocode
- Iteration: A repeating portion of an algorithm that repeats until a condition is met.
- Iteration statement: Changes the flow of control until a condition allows it to stop
- Repeat Until: Repeats until the condition is false.
## 3.9 and 3.11 Selection, Sequences, and Iterations
- Algorithms can be written in different ways yet still work in the same way.
## 3.12 and 3.13 Procedures and Parameters
- Procedure: Does a specific part and must be called, such as multiplying two numbers together The procedure will take in parameters and will output values.
- A parameter is just variables, typically found within procedures.
- Modularity: Breaking complex programs into easier parts
- Abstraction: Hides parts and exposes what is necessary
- Duplication: Multiple codes of the same thing, reduces efficacy as it can be simplified.
## 3.14 and 3.15 Randomization and Libraries
- Software Library: Contains procedures that can be used in the creation of new programs
- Randomization: Generates a random value between any two numbers.
- Random Function: Random function can choose a number between two different numerical values. An example is random(1,8) will choose a random number between 1 and 8 inclusive. This helps to simplify code as writing a random number generator would use up a lot more space than "import random"
## 3.17 and 3.18 Unsolvability vs Undecidability
- Unsolvable problem: There is no code that can be written that will give an answer.
- Undecidable problem: There is no code that can find the answer, but there is an answer, just too complex.