---
keywords: fastai
title: Workers Within Tech
comments: true
permalink: /jupyter/lesson2
categories: [Out_Of_Class_Notes]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-11-28-AP-BigIdea3dot3and4.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

## Notes
### Kathyleen Beveridge
- Born in Vietnam
- lived in the Bay Area until 2004
- Has a finance degree from the San Antonio area
- Did not have a traditional college degree
- Goal is to thrive in life 
- Finance major turned investment banker, a common path for finance workers
- Swapped careers to tech
- Worked at Qualcomm
- Company Mission Statements
    - The jobs that she worked at all had a goal of creating tech that would benefit the world.
    - You can see how Beveridge wants to help the world through technology.
- The jobs she worked at are World Leaders in serving science
    - Said companies have over 100 thousand workers, over 1.5 billion dollars in inventions, and over 40 million in revenue.

### Kris Porter
- Dev ops engineer
- Livermore High School alum
- Enrolled at UCLA for Electrical Engineering
- First computer science class was in UCLA
- Has a masters degree in Electrical Engineering from Cal State LA
- Shows that even if something is hard, it could still be for you
- Timeline
    - Graduated when the stock market was terrible, 2009
    - Worked at as hop where computers were fixed
    - 2010 became a system engineer
    - Worked in NBC streaming media infrastructure in 2012
    - Introduced to Dev Ops in 2014 and started at Qualcomm due to Mr.Mortensen
    - 2021, now works at Twitter.
- Twitter university which helped him at Twitter
- Graph QL was a project that he worked on in Twitter.

### Q&A Session
- Different companies have different group sizes
- Agile is important within projects especially when working with others.
- Porter is leaving Twitter for Mysten Labs
- Data Scientists rely on tech workers but tech workers also rely on data scientists.
- One important skills in the tech industry is continuous learning
- As long as you keep learning, it is not a waste of time.
- Best workers are those who listen as well as translate it to how it works.
- Easier to find a job if you are already employed


## What I Have Learned
This was actually very useful for me actually. I am currently a junior and I am not yet sure what major I want, but from listening to Beveridge and Prter today I think that I have a better grasp of the direction that I should head in. I want to do something hands on yet still implementing code so something in engineering with a more electronic side would be perfect for me. Seeing how Beveridge completed a full 180 on how she wants to live her life has helped me to realize that choosing a major in college is not an end all be all for life. Today was interesting.
